---
layout: post
title: "Mike&#39;s NHL 2k5 Experiment"
---

<p>Lately my interest in video editing has been growing. Here's the result of my latest insane idea. If you know me, there's a good chance that you're in the video, so you should watch it:</p>
<ul> 
<li><a href="http://wss.kindohm.com/Videos/Nhl2k5Experiment-HiRes.wmv">Mike's NHL 2K5 Experiment (High Res ~ 18.5 MB)</a>  </li>
<li><a href="http://wss.kindohm.com/Videos/Nhl2k5Experiment-LoRes.wmv">Mike's NHL 2K5 Experiment (Low Res ~ 8.5 MB)</a></li></ul> 
<p>I've always had the idea of putting friends, coworkers, celebrities, etc into some type of a sim-hockey league. I've worked on it with SQL Server and .Net, and now the idea has manifested itself on my XBox.</p>
<p>In ESPN's NHL 2K5 video game, you can create your own custom players and teams. Well, I figured it'd be kind of fun to put all kinds of people I know on a custom team, capture some footage, and make some videos out of it. It'd be fun to watch Neil Iverson bury a one-timer from Keith Abernathy on a breakaway... or something.</p>
<p>So, I went ahead and did it. However, I don't know that I'll ever do it again. It's just&nbsp;really time consuming. Most of the&nbsp;game footage does&nbsp;NOT consist of fancy passing, goals, fantastic saves, or fights. Usable footage accounts for maybe only about 5% of what is actually captured on tape. As a result, you have to weed through minute upon minute of footage that won't get used. Then you have to edit it and make it look nice, and so on.&nbsp; The other thing is that the up-close and personal feel I was aiming for with using real people for the players didn't come across like I had hoped.&nbsp; </p>
<p>However, now that I've been through it once, I could probably do a better job next time and it'd be easier because I know what I'm doing. We'll see what happens. Hope you enjoy it.</p>
 
