---
layout: post
title: "VirtualPuck is alive and kicking"
---

<p><a href="http://kindohm.com/archive/2005/03/06/350.aspx">A while back I mentioned</a> that I had put away plans for <a href="http://www.virtualpuck.com">VirtualPuck.com</a>.  Well,. I'm back at it.  This weekend some friends of mine were significantly bummed when I told them that I hadn't worked on it since March and that I actually forgot about it.  They actually inspired me to pick it up again.  </p>
<p>So I cracked open the code and was pleasantly suprised to see that it was actually in pretty good shape.  I really had no recollection of where I left off and how good or bad the code was.  </p>
<p>Today I added some RSS feeds, some caching, and support for CAPTCHA.  I'm very pleased with the web app.  The database side is a different story though.  While the design is solid, it will rely on me to perform some semi-regular tasks to demoralize the data [1].  I want to avoid that if possible.  And those processes are CPU intensive too - not something my ISP would like.  Those are two things I really want to address before the first release.  </p>
<p>One of the big benefits over the last league I ran two years ago is that the new league will have contributors that can publish content.  In addition, there'll be a public smack-talk line right on the front page that anyone can add to.  Not sure how good or bad that feature will be :)  If you have a creative spirit, a weird sense of humor, and think you might like to be a contributor if this thing takes off, <a href="http://kindohm.com/contact.aspx">contact me</a>.</p>
<p>We'll see where the project goes. </p>
<p>[1] For those of you not familar with data demoralization, it's like denormalization except you make the data feel bad.</p>
 
