---
layout: post
title: "Back to Demographics"
---

<p>The <a href="http://kindohm.com/archive/2005/07/08/992.aspx">demographics project</a> has been revived.  In between attending to Eva and working on the basement, I've been digging in to code.  I haven't actually gotten in to any WPF stuff yet - I've been focusing on parsing the <a href="http://www.census.gov/geo/www/cob/bdy_files.html" target="_blank">cartographic files from the US census bureau</a>.  In my earlier experimentation with 3D in Avalon, I gave the cartographic data just barely enough attention to make things work.  This time around, I want the data to be complete, which means parsing many, many files and having a faster parsing process. </p>
  
<p>The files break down like this:</p>
  
<ul> 
<li>Two files that describe US state boundaries (about 8 MB total)</li> 
<li>Two files that describe US counties (about 52 MB total)</li> 
<li>Two files for each state that describe cities (for Minnesota, this is about 2.5 MB; ~ 125 MB for the entire US)</li> 
<li>Two files for each state that describe zip codes (for Minnesota, this is about 10 MB; ~ 500 MB for the entire US)</li> </ul>  
<p>I had a first attempt at a parsing process that ran extremely slow.  It parsed the entire state files and a fraction of the county files in about a half hour.  Way too slow.  I improved the design and now it flies and will parse states and counties in a few minutes.  Cities and zip codes are buggy at the moment.  </p>
  
<p>Once I get all the data parsed, I'm estimating there might be around 1,000,000 individual latitude and longitude points.  What's interesting is that states with a lot of coastline have the most data points.  Alaska has about 7400.  I haven't counted/observed any other states, but at a glance it looks like Florida, Maine, Hawaii, and California complete the top 5.</p>
  
<p>Once the data is in SQL, I'll write some more...</p>
 
