---
title: Seven Must-Have Features for Forge in Halo 5
layout: post
tags: halo videogames gaming
---

**Warning: uber nerd gaming post ahead** 

It's been a long, long time since I've posted anything about the Halo video games. My interest in the game has waned since Halo: Reach, but it has been rejuvenated with a recent push of Forge map editing. 

The custom map-making experience is really where my interest lies in Halo. 
I'm a long-time fan of the Halo games, but I really wonder how many new versions of the game will keep me coming back if the Forge features don't change much. If the map-editing experience significantly improves, I guarantee I'll keep coming back. I love creating maps that my friends and I can play each week (we play regularly on Thursdays). 

Halo's Forge editor (currently in Halo 4) needs some major improvements in order to keep me interested. It's not a user-friendly tool and can be time-consuming and frustrating to use. At first I thought that this was just a limitation of an XBox controller-based editor, but other XBox games like Trials: Evolution have a map editor with many of the features I'd like to see in the next Forge. 

I imagine 343 Industries is already hard at work on the next Halo title. I hope my input isn't too little too late. So, 343 Industries, if you're reading this, please consider these Forge features (in order of preference) in your next Halo game.

<h3>Multiple object selection, grouping, cut/copy, and paste</h3>

Today in Halo 4, we can "duplicate" a single object - which allows us to re-create an object with the same orientation. However, if you've built an entire structure of objects (e.g. a team's base), you cannot duplicate that entire structure. The next Forge should have the ability to select multiple objects, put them into a group, then allow you to manipulate (e.g. rotate, move) and/or cut/copy/paste that group. 

Trials: Evolution executes this feature wonderfully in their map editor.

<h3>Develop a Sufficient, New "Forge World"</h3>

In Halo: Reach, Bungie authored a brilliant, huge, open, custom map-editing space called _Forge World_. When Halo 4 came out, there was no such thing. Months after the game's release 343 finally released a downloadable map called _Forge Island_, which nearly achieved the original awesomeness of Forge World. However, Forge Island is just a few big flat circular planes in an otherwise big, empty 3D canvas. It is uninteresting and a mediocre effort by 343 to create a blank canvas for Forgers. Next time, I would like to see a blank Forging map with richer terrain and map features like canyons, islands, hills, mountains, and caves (like in Forge World). This map should be shipped on the game disk, but I'd be willing to wait a few months and download it later if it is done right.

<h3>New Forge building blocks</h3>

One of my biggest disappointments with Halo 4's Forge was that the Forge objects were _identical_ to the objects in Reach. Sure, we need a standard set of basic building blocks (4x4, 1x2, etc), but I really don't want to use those towers from Ascension any more or those same old decorative braces. How about some new objects? 

It's not like 343 didn't put any effort into designing new Forge items in Halo 4. They just chose to not make new items available in places like Forge Island. For example, on the Impact map, there are bases, corridors, and other cool stuff, _but they are only available on the Impact map_! Why, oh why?! \*shakes fist at sky\*

Obviously it will take some design and development work to add new objects to Forge, but it will make the game much more enjoyable.

<h3>Bring back one-sided game types</h3>

This isn't a Forge issue; this is a multiplayer issue, but it is still related. Why oh why did 343 get rid of the one-sided CTF and Assault game types? The one-sided game types are _core_ to the types of maps and games I play with my regular group of friends. Please bring them back, 343.

<h3>Get rid of the "Generating Lighting" wait time</h3>

I'm sure 343 had a good reason for needing to do this in Halo 4, but it is painful. When you switch from Monitor to Player mode in the Forge editor, you must wait for about 5 seconds for the lighting and shadows to render on game objects before you can test out your map on foot. I recently visited the Forge editor in Reach and was pleasantly surprised when I didn't have to wait for this! Please fix, m'kay?

<h3>Multiple In-Editor Game Mode Support</h3>

Today, if you're doing basic editing in Forge, you need to end the Forge session and then start up a new one to edit the map for CTF. Then if you want to do something for Dominion, you have to end Forge and start up a new Forge game again. Painful, at best. We should be able to switch game modes within the same Forge session.

<h3>Undo/Redo</h3>

What is a content editor without the ability to undo a mistake? In Forge today, you cannot undo an accidental delete. Spent five minutes tweaking the exact alignment of a block, then delete it, only to then change your mind? Too bad. 

<h3>Conclusion</h3>

I'm being pretty harsh on 343 here. In all honesty, Forge in Halo 4 is _better_ than Forge in Halo Reach simply because of the **magnets** and **duplication** features. Fortunately, these new features make up for the complaints I have and I keep coming back to Forge. However, unless there are additional improvements made I'm not sure how eager I will be to fire up the next Halo game on a regular basis. So whaddya say, 343? Let's see some of these ideas in the next Halo Forge!
