---
layout: post
title: "501 Development Ebbs and Flows"
---

<p>The <a href="http://501manifesto.org">501 Manifesto</a> has been going around in developer circles recently. The basic idea of the manifesto is that programmers should have a life outside of writing code.</p>
<p>I was glad to see <a href="http://adit.io/posts/2012-04-18-I_guess_Im_not_a_501_Developer.html">this blog post</a> as I don't agree with 100% of the 501 Manifesto. It's a question of what your likes and hobbies are, isn't it? One man's love is another man's labor. I write on this blog, contribute to open source projects on GitHub, speak at developer events, and try to stay on top of new and emerging technologies as much as I can. I <em>also</em> play hockey, write and record music with others, play video games, spend almost every minute with my daughter while she is not in school or sleeping, go to Minnesota Wild hockey games, and relax and have fun with my wife.</p>
<p>In this discussion of the 501 Manifesto, nobody has brought up ebbs and flows. You don't have to be a 501 developer 100% of the time. Nor do you have to be uber-passionate about code 100% of the time. There is middle ground. Can't our activities ebb and flow with what our job and interests demand?</p>
<p>I have more hobbies and interests (on top of programming) than the  average guy out there. I'm spread really thin, but there are still  short lengths of time (e.g. a few days to a few weeks) when I focus most of my free energy on writing code or technical activities. For example,  I'm coming off a two-day Twin Cities Code Camp weekend, prefixed by a week spent preparing my presentation I gave at that event. I am preparing for another presentation at Iowa Code Camp and am also trying to get a Windows 8 app developed. It's been an intense period of geeking out. Time to  change it up. I wasn't a 501 developer for a while, so can't next week be different?</p>
<p>The point of the manifesto should be a wake-up call to developers to live rich, healthy lives. The point should <em>not</em> be to identify specific, arbitrary traits of developers that may or may not hurt a single developer's quality of life. Take from the 501 Manifesto its spirit, not its specifics.</p>

