---
layout: post
title: "Books, babies and basements"
---

<p>Just a few random comments and updates...</p>
<p>I decided I'm going to take the plunge and write a technical book. I know that the content of the book will be the most important part, but I couldn't help but put a lot of thought into the title: <em>"Creating an estimate without requirements: using telepathy to read users' minds and let them know when they'll get what they think they want"</em>.&nbsp; One of my current projects would benefit from this subject.&nbsp; I figure I can make millions when I come out with this.</p>
<p>Being a new parent has been fun and also an adjustment. Hearing "it's a life-changing experience" is such a cliche, but that statement has a lot of weight to it. It's been more of a change than what I was expecting. Eva needs a lot of attention, and it's difficult to stop your life on a dime and do whatever you want. For example, I can't just sit down and write code when I get a coding urge any more. That extends to other things like XBox, music, and getting out of the house. At those times when I <em>can</em> sit down and do something, it's inevitable that Eva will need some attention after about 20 minutes. </p>
<p>I'm not complaining at all. Having Eva around is also more fun than what I was expecting too. She makes Nikki and I laugh all the time and of course it's amazing to see how she changes week to week. It's just a big, big change in life's priorities and if you're like me you can't change your lifestyle in a day. So far it's been about 5.5 weeks and I'm still adjusting :)</p>
<p>The basement still isn't done. I've made phone calls to some contractors to help expedite the project, but either I haven't been able to talk to someone yet or the person/company doesn't do the type of work I'm looking for. Basically I want somebody to finish the last 10% of the framing and do the drywall. This project is beginning to take its toll on me and I am very, very ready for it to be done. Unfortunately getting the drywall done is just the end of one chapter. There's still inspections, trim, carpet, paint, bath fixtures, doors...</p>
<p>The NHL season starts a week from today, and Nikki and I will be going to the Wild home opener. The NHL is launching a new marketing campaign that includes some very unique and dramatic video spots... look for them on TV and in movie theaters. I haven't decided if I like them yet. I think they're weird and I have difficulty matching how I perceive the NHL with the image and attitude expressed in the spots. But at the same time I think the NHL is overdue for a new identity, so we'll just see how the cards fall.</p>
<p><a href="http://www.virtualpuck.com/">VirtualPuck.com</a> is in full swing, but it's getting a little stale. We need content writers. If you have too much time on your hands and think the idea of a fictional, simulated hockey league is the coolest thing you've ever heard of, contact me.</p>
<p>Last but not least, it's autumn, the best time of year.</p>
 
