---
layout: post
title: "VirtualPuck.com Update"
---

<p>Things are going well with VirtualPuck.com, although the progress has slowed due to my renewed motivation to work on my basement.  Most of my time lately has been spent validating the simulation output.  The simulation engine itself works great, but I have to keep tweaking inputs so that it behaves a bit more like real life.  For example, at the end of a season there'll be a player or two with 60+ assists but zero shots on goal.  Tonight I think I finally got player attributes set such that things are pretty realistic.  I'm going to run another complete season simulation overnight and see what it looks like tomorrow.</p>
<p>Otherwise there's a laundry list of stuff to take care of next:</p>

<ul> 
<li>Fix some fomatting details on stats pages</li> 
<li>Fix some calculation bugs on stats pages</li>  
	<li>Pretty up the design of the site a bit</li>  
	<li>Scour the site with a fine toothed comb to make sure it plays nice with IE and FF</li>  
	<li>Test different user role scenarios</li>  
	<li>Guidelines doc for content contributors</li></ul> 
<p>Since I don't have an intended release date, I may add a few of these features:</p>
<ul> 
<li>Bug reporting form</li> 
<li>Enhancement request form</li> 
<li>News/Content subscriptions</li>  
<li>RSS feed</li></ul> 
<p>If anything, those features will be slated for &#8220;next season&#8221;, whenever that is.  With luck, I'll have a release ready for a short season this winter/spring, otherwise it'll be running full steam this Fall/Winter.</p>
 
