---
layout: post
title: "Welcome to another NFL season"
---

<p>It's the first Sunday of NFL football.  As a tribute, here are the top 5 best and worst things about a new football season:</p>
<p><strong>Best</strong></p>
<ol> 
<li>Football means autumn, the best season, is almost here.</li> 
<li>New truck and beer commercials.  Nikki and I loved the Dodge Durango commercials with the young mom and dad and their son Joey.  </li> 
<li>It's an exciting physical sport.  Next to hockey, football is the most physically demanding and violent professional sport out there</li> 
<li>It's a soap opera for men.  Yes, it's true, and it's ok.  Why is it a soap opera?  Two reasons: 1) it's dramatic and 2) you always tune in next week to see what happens next</li> 
<li>It's a reason to not do anything or be productive on Sundays.  What else needs to be said?</li>
</ol> 
<p><strong>Worst</strong></p>
<ol> 
<li>It's one of the most boring wastes of time on television.  The length of time between plays and the number of commercial breaks makes me want to vomit all over myself.  Maybe I'm too used to the pace of hockey.</li> 
<li>Player egos and attitudes.  The NFL embraces the &#8220;superstar&#8220;.  Players are often more interested in breaking records than winning.  </li> 
<li>Five months of neanderthal analysis and color commentary.</li> 
<li>Ball spotting.</li> 
<li>The most over-hyped and entertainment-saturated event on television: the Super Bowl.  Getting to the game almost means more than winning it.  The halftime show might mean more than both of those.</li>
</ol> 
<p> </p>
 
