---
layout: post
title: "Web Part Performance Issues - an update"
---

<p>I've been working on some <a href="http://kindohm.com/archive/2005/05/13/444.aspx">performance problems with SharePoint web parts</a>.&nbsp; We were able to narrow down the problem to a couple of things: </p>


	<p>The web part traversed hierarchies of SPS Areas inefficiently.&nbsp; The original code appeared to get the value of an Area's <em>Areas</em> property more than necessary:</p>

<pre><code>Dim objSubArea as Area 
For intCounter as Integer = 0 To objArea.Areas.Count - 1 
 objSubArea = objArea.Areas(intCounter) 
 '''do some recursive processing 
Next</code> </pre>
<p>Back in 2003 at a SharePoint developers conference in Redmond, the SP development team made it clear that SP collections should either be assigned to&nbsp;a variable before using them&nbsp;or enumerated using a for-each. They didn't say why, but after opening up the code in Reflector I can see&nbsp;why:</p>
<pre><code>public AreaCollection get_Areas()
{
      aa.b().Demand();
      aa.a().Assert();
      return new AreaCollection(this.a.l());
}
</code></pre>
<p>With all of those security checks being performed and new AreaCollections being returned, the original code was likely resulting a in a lot of excess processing. Thus, we changed it to this:</p>
<pre><code>For Each objSubArea as Area in objArea.Areas
     
 '''do some recursive processing
 
Next</code> </pre>
<p>In load-testing terms I don't know exactly how much this improves performance, but I compared the old and new web part code side by side using elapsed System.Environment.TickCounts and the new code appeared to take about 1/4 the time to load. </p>


<p>The web part had a feature that added document libraries and lists to the menu as menu items. The operations to find/load document libraries and lists are <strong>very</strong> costly: </p>
<pre><code>Area.Web.GetListsOfType(SPBaseType.DocumentLibrary)
Area.Web.GetListsOfType(SPBaseType.GenericList)</code></pre>

<p>By &#8220;very costly&#8220;, I mean that the web part loaded much faster 
	once we removed these calls altogether...</p>
<p>What we actually found was that these calls were being made even when&nbsp;
	the feature wasn't&nbsp;even turned on.
&nbsp;The calls were made ahead of time before the If...Then statement that 
checked whether the feature was turned on or off. It turns out that nobody
<span style="FONT-SIZE: 6pt; VERTICAL-ALIGN: super">1</span> was using this 
feature and management made the decision that it should be removed completely. </p>
 
<p>It turns out that the main performance problems&nbsp;could be&nbsp;resolved through improvement of the web part implementation rather than changing the design of the entire web part. At the beginning of all this I thought we would be working on the latter.</p>
<p><span style="FONT-SIZE: 6pt; VERTICAL-ALIGN: super">1</span> <span style="FONT-SIZE: 0.8em">We used a tool that <a href="http://iwkid.blogspot.com">IWKid</a> developed to browse all of the web parts in the entire site to see if they were using the IncludeAreaContent property/feature. We found none, and none of the business owners knew of anyone using the feature.</span></p>
 
